---
aliases: [1.7 War Story- Asking the Right Questions- solutions should be pointed and should scale]
---
Status: #idea
Tags: [[application domain]], [[sentiment analysis]], [[NLP]]

While there are technical challenges encountered when developing a data analytic soluion, often the most challenging piece is asking the right questions

>The world will not beat a path to your door just for a new source of data. You must be able to supply the right questions before you can turn data into money.[^2] 

Prof Steven Skiena ran General Sentiment, which performed sentiment analysis of socvial media postings. Often clients came with questions that were not relevant to the type of questions Sentiment Analysis of social media data could provide. [^1]
- example airacraft engine manufacturer wanted to know what kids were saying about them on facebook, which was irreleavnt because they weren't on their radar. [^1]
- Another client wanted to use them if they were better han Nielsen, but Nielsen provides a totally different set of data.[^2]

The platform could do a lot in terms of sentiment analysis and there were a diverse set of clients with question that were relevant to the technology. [^1] Some of these relevant questions included:
- Hawaii tourism office: What do people think about Hawaii?[^2]
- Toyata: How long does it take for sentiment to recover after news of serious brake issues? [^2]
- Blackberry: What did people think of new Blackberry models?[^2]
- Romney 2012: How long would it take for Romeny's sentiment to recover after gaffe that insulted almost ahlf of the electorate in a recorded speech?[^2]

These questions were relevant, as they were the type of information that could be mined from social media data, and could be difficult to acuqire thrugh traditional methods.

However the general nature of quiestions that could be answered was an issue. Each of these questiosn came from diverse domains[^3][^4], that essentially meant each one was froms scratch, The lack of synergy meant the business couldn't scale.[^2] 

>But it turns out no one pays you to do anything. They pay you to do *something*, to solve a particular problem they have, or elimiante a specific paint point in their business. Being able to do anything proves to be a terrible sales strategy, because it requires you to find that need afresh for each and every customer.[^1] 


[^1]:[[Skiena-The Data Science  Design Manual 1st|The Data Science Design Manual]] pg 21
[^2]: [[Skiena-The Data Science  Design Manual 1st|The Data Science Design Manual]] pg 22
[^3]:[[202206141848-broad thinking is needed to find answers in unexpected data sets|key to asking good question of datasets is broad thinking]]
[^4]: [[202206141427-DS requires context and asking good questions of the dataset|asking interesting questions of data set]]